Add autoscaler docs (#685)
charmed-kubernetes/kubernetes-docs: pages/k8s/autoscaler.md

---
wrapper_template: "templates/docs/markdown.html"
markdown_includes:
  nav: "kubernetes/docs/shared/_side-navigation.md"
context:
  title: "Kubernetes autoscaler charm"
  description: Deploy, configure and manage the cluster autoscaler
keywords: charms, operators
tags: [operating]
sidebar: k8smain-sidebar
permalink: autoscaler.html
layout: [base, ubuntu-com]
toc: False
---

The Kubernetes autoscaler charm is an operator charm designed to be run on top
of a **Charmed Kubernetes** cluster. The charm automatically adjusts
the size of the Kubernetes cluster when one of the following conditions is true:

>  - there are pods that failed to run in the cluster due to insufficient resources

Reviewer: failed to run due to insufficient resources is a bit vague here. Scale up occurs when pods are marked as unschedulable by the scheduler, so something that indicates its the failing to be scheduled that causes things would be be better I think
```suggestion
 - there are pods that failed to be scheduled in the cluster due to insufficient resources
```

These instructions assume you have a cluster registered with Juju and named `ck8s`. Please 
adjust the commands given appropriately if you have used a different name.

It is also recommended to schedule the autoscaler charm pods on
control-plane nodes, not worker nodes. In order to schedule pods on
control-plane nodes, ensure the control-plane nodes do not have the taint
`juju.is/kubernetes-control-plane=true:NoSchedule` applied:

```bash
kubectl get nodes -o custom-columns=NAME:.metadata.name,TAINTS:.spec.taints --no-headers
```

In order to remove the taint, for each tainted control-plane node run:

```bash
kubectl taint node $NODE juju.is/kubernetes-control-plane=true:NoSchedule-
```

Assuming you have a Charmed-Kubernetes deployment running and have copied the kube config file from your control-plane:

If necessary, add a new model to deploy the autoscaler charm into. Adding a model creates a Kubernetes namespace behind the scenes:

```bash
juju add-model autoscaler-model ck8s
```

Next, deploy the autoscaler charm. Note that it must be deployed with trust:

```
juju deploy kubernetes-autoscaler --trust --constraints "tags=node.juju-application=kubernetes-control-plane"
```

> The `--trust` switch means that the autoscalar will have access to the Juju credentials required to add new nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--trust` switch means that the autoscaler will have access to the Juju credentials required to add and remove nodes.
```
